President Joe Biden has just made a
decision that will change the entire
course of the Ukraine war Ukrainian
President Vladimir zelinsky's much
vaunted Victory plan required the United
States to give the green light to a
specific action that up until now the US
hasn't allowed America giving the
go-ahead for this one thing would allow
Ukraine to obliterate Russia by taking
the fight directly to some of Russia's
most important strategic assets the US
has spent the last 2 and 1 half years
Heming in whing over this decision but
finally it's happened President Joe
Biden has given Ukraine permission to
strike Russia inside Russian territory
using us made and supplied longrange
missiles it's the last major Act of a
president who will soon leave the White
House and it's going to change the
course of the war and it's an act that's
already benefited Ukraine a mere day
after the reports of permission being
granted filed in Ukraine took action it
launched the first of what will likely
be many attacks missiles at Russia this
is massive news in this video we're
going to examine the reasons behind
Biden's decision to give the green light
for attack's usage inside Russia before
examining how Ukraine intends to use its
missiles to obliterate the Russian
Federation the BBC was among the first
to report on President Biden's decision
on November 18th it delivered the basics
Biden had given the green light for
attack's use inside Russia the outlet
said in a major policy reversal
previously the use of these missiles
have been restricted to targets inside
Ukraine and in Crimea which Russia
annexed in 2014 for fear that using them
in Russia could escalate the war CNN
provides more details in its own report
it points out that the approval isn't
official in the sense that Biden's
announced Ukraine's ability to use
attack's missiles against Russia to the
public rather the news of the approval
comes from a pair of us officials who
are close to the president and familiar
with the wrangling that's been going on
surrounding attack's usage one of those
officials points out that the missiles
are currently intended for using KK in
the wake of Russia's decision to deploy
50,000 troops to the oblast those 50,000
troops may include as many as 12,000
North Korean soldiers which Putin has at
his disposal thanks in large part to the
Cooperative defense pact he signed with
North Korean president Kim Jong-un back
in July 2024 Biden's advisers believe
that the arrival of these troops could
spark a new phase of the war according
to CNN so the attack's approval delivers
more Firepower to the Ukrainian soldiers
in KK at a time when they're coming
under intense pressure Al jaz's
diplomatic correspondent James baze
backs this reasoning up he says that the
aim of these Western Nations is to
support Ukraine particularly in the area
of Russia that Ukraine has occupied K
why does kk matter in August 2024
Vladimir zinski made the unexpected
decision to play Putin at his own game
rather than focusing merely on the
defense of the beleaguered donet region
inside Ukraine he sent a small
contingent of the country's troops into
Russia's kerco blast a red line was
crossed Ukraine entered Russia and in a
matter of weeks Ukraine was claiming
that it held over 450 square miles of
Russian territory including 93 Villages
thanks to its counter Invasion the KK
Invasion marked a turning point in the
war with Ukraine's capture of Russian
territory giving it a major bargaining
chip should negotiations ever start with
Putin Ukraine now has the option of
trading what it holds in KK for some of
the territory Russia has taken during
Putin's special military operation of
course that bargaining ship goes away if
Ukraine isn't able to keep the territory
at henus Putin's deployment of 50,000
soldiers in counter offensive is
supposed to retake the many settlements
Ukraine has claimed Ukraine needs to
fight against that counter offensive
which is where the attack's missiles
come into play with them Ukraine can
launch strikes against Russian and North
Korean positions in KK from within its
own borders that's huge for Ukraine it's
now able to support its soldiers on the
ground with missile strikes that Russia
can't easily counter back to CNN's
report it also notes that the approval
of attack's use in Russia has been a
long time coming the US outright refused
to send the missiles to Ukraine even for
use within its own territory for the
first 2 years of the war escalation of
the war was the main fear at the time
the US was wary of what Putin might do
in response to sending such powerful
missiles to Ukraine CNN also notes that
some within the United States also
worried about the US eating into stock
piles of attacks essentially reducing
its ability to defend itself in return
for arming Ukraine President Biden
reversed that policy in February 2024
enabling the first attachm systems to
enter Ukraine in April but even then the
edict was clear Ukraine was only to use
the missiles to attack Russian positions
within its own territory Crimea could be
included in that list given that the US
doesn't recognize Russia's 2014
annexation of the peninsula meaning it
should still be owned by Ukraine but
attacks on Russia itself were a nogo
president zalinski had pressed long and
often to get the go-ahead to use the
missiles against Russia even before the
US allowed them to be used inside
Ukraine there were signs that the
approval was on its way several months
before it came in September 2024 Al
jazer reported on what it called a faint
glimmer of hope for Ukraine after months
of zin's Haring for permission to use
attack's missiles against Russia Biden
responded we're working that out right
now when asked about lifting his
Geographic restrictions the president's
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin also
noted that the US has continuously
adjusted and adapted based on
Battlefield conditions the signs were
there that approval was incoming Putin's
decision to use North Korean troops in
his counter offensive against the
Ukrainian positions in KK appears to
have pushed President Biden to make his
decision after all Putin's use of North
Korean soldiers represents the type of
escalation the US always feared now it
needs to help Ukraine counter that
escalation with stronger weapons zinski
finally has what he's wanted for over 2
years and Russia isn't happy Putin has
already made several threats against the
us as it deliberated over whether to
permit Ukraine to use attacks inside
Russia toward the end of September 2024
less than 2 weeks after President Biden
and blinken's comments about considering
attack's usage Putin was on the war path
it's proposed that aggression against
Russia by any non-nuclear state but with
the participation or support of a
nuclear State be considered as their
joint attack on the Russian Federation
puting rageed during a September meeting
of Russia's Security Council the use of
the word nuclear was very intentional
Putin was essentially saying that Russia
would consider the US permitting Ukraine
to use attack's missiles in Russia as an
attack conducted by a nuclear nation and
even though those missiles won't carry
nuclear warheads Russia reserved the
right to respond to such conventional
missile strikes with nuclear weapons in
thought don't do it America we'll use
nukes if you let Ukraine use your
missiles against us the Russian response
has been no less muted now that
President Biden has given his approval
Putin's mouthpiece Dimitri pesov was one
of the first to respond if such a
decision was really formulated and
brought to the attention of the key
regime this is a qualitatively new round
of tension and a qualitatively new
situation in terms of the involvement of
the United States in the conflict he
said when speaking to Russian media of
course pesov statements ignore the fact
that Russia had already escalated with
its decision to use North Korean troops
against ukraini and kusk but that
hypocrisy has never stopped the Kremlin
from making threats against the US
before Russian lawmaker Maria batina
also warned that President Biden's
actions would lead to a massive
escalation however she also pointed to
Russia's hope that president-elect
Donald Trump would overturn Biden's
decision I have a great hope that Trump
will overcome this decision if this has
been made because they are seriously
risking the start of World War II
claimed boua pesov has also made mention
of the outgoing Administration in
Washington and intention to add fuel to
the fire in the war so it appears Russia
may be hoping that Donald Trump will
come to their rescue and save the
country from attack's missiles whether
that will actually happen
president-elect Trump's proposed peace
plan could prevent escalation remains to
be seen it's also worth noting that
President Biden's decision hasn't been
met with universal approval from other
nations in Europe Hungary Italy and
Slovakia have all condemned the decision
perhaps because they believe that using
attack's missiles in Russia will
escalate tensions to the point where
other European countries are threat
Politico also reports that one French
military official says that permitting
Ukraine to use attack's missiles will
not change the balance of power in the
war it will merely slow down rather than
stop what the official views as an
industrial war in which the nation that
can produce the most weapons in the long
run is the most likely to win it's
difficult to determine whether those
comments amount to French disapproval of
President Biden's decision or not still
it doesn't matter the decision has been
made and perhaps it's president zalinski
who provides the most telling response
to Biden's decision reacting to the news
he said today there's a lot of talk in
the media about us receiving permission
for respective actions but strikes are
not carried out with words such things
are not announced missiles will speak
for themselves the last statement is
telling seninsky is suggesting that all
of the talk is meaningless because
Ukraine has the permission it needs and
with that we come to a key question why
is Russia so afraid of America's
attack's missiles we only need to look
at the missil specs to find the answer
Al jazer provides some details about the
attacks or Army tactical missile system
in it report about Biden's decision it
says they were first developed in the
1980s with the missiles having a 190 M
range that allows them to be launched
from within Ukraine to strike Russian
territory they're built by loed Martin
and are launchable by both the high Mar
systems the US has sent to Ukraine in
July 20122 and the m270 multiple launch
rocket systems Ukraine received from the
UK in the same year in other words
Ukraine already has everything it needs
to fire the attacks it just needed
permission to use them how it wanted
missile threat provides more details
noting that the attacks is a single
stage missile that can be loaded with a
high explosive or blast fragmentation
Warhead the latter of Which packs up to
950 submunitions allowing for powerful
scattershot attacks against Russian
positions the mention of high Mars in
the m270 system should also clue you
into the fact that the attachm is a Road
Mobile missile that allows Ukraine to
launch from almost anywhere within its
territory that's what will make it so
useful for countering Russia's KK
offensive Ukraine can literally Drive
its attack's missiles to the Border it
shares with Russia and launch both into
the territory it's taken and the
positions that Russian and North Korean
troops have established on kkk's
outskirts the attack hims is also
designed for precision four Tail Fins
located on its rear keep it stable while
it's in Flight with the nose cone at the
front doing the same the missile also
combines GPS and an inertial navigation
system or ins that allows it to fly
directly to its intended target while
minimizing collateral damage the ins
system also offers protection against
interference and electronic jamming
meaning Russian will need to rely on its
s300 and S400 anti-air systems to shoot
it out of the Skies given that the
attacks can reach speeds up to Mac 3i
hitting it while it's in Flight is a
pretty tall order in short it's an
extremely powerful missile the likes of
which Russia hasn't needed to contend
with for much of the war outside of a
handful of strikes in Crimea with one
taking place in June 2024 that killed at
least four Russians and injured a
further 151 Ukraine hasn't been able to
get the most out of its attack's
missiles now it can and it's that fact
that terrifies Putin so we come to
another question what does Ukraine's new
ability to use attack's missiles against
Russia mean for the future of the war
it's all bad news for Russia and Ukraine
has already given us one of the answers
on November 19th the BBC reported that
us officials had confirmed that Ukraine
has launched the first of its attacks
missiles at Russia the strike involved
five missiles all targeting the briansk
region according to Russia's defense
Ministry of those five one managed to
make it through Russia's anti-air
defenses with fragments of the exploded
missile causing a fire at a military
facility in the border of blast at least
that's according to Russia the US
officials who confirmed the attack say
that the numbers are much different
Ukraine actually fired eight missiles
only two of which Russia managed to
intercept this suggests that six got
through likely causing far more damage
than Russia would like to admit reuter
has followed up the BBC's report noting
that Ukraine is now claiming that it
managed to strike a Russian arms Depot
located 70 Mi deep into the briansk
region the attack was also accompanied
by a drone strike targeting at least
eight Southern and Central regions
Russia's defense Ministry claims it shut
down 42 of the drones along with four of
five attack's missiles whatever the
truth may be the Kremlin was quick to
respond to the news Russia's foreign
minister sergy lavro immediately accused
the United States of escalating a
conflict of which it shouldn't have any
part that attacks was used repeatedly
overnight against the briansk region is
of course a signal that they meaning the
United States want escalation lavro
claimed he then made the chilling claim
that Russia would proceed with any
future decision from the understanding
that Ukraine's attacks were operated by
American Military experts and this
attack may just be the start of
Ukraine's attack's offensive as
mentioned earlier Putin has amassed
around 50,000 soldiers including troops
from North Korea to drive out the
Ukrainian occupiers in the ker go blast
that counter offensive is going poorly
for Russia on November 12th Forbes
military expert David ax reported that
Ukraine had already destroyed 77 Russian
armored vehicles during the first 6 days
of the counter offensive most of those
were along the northern edge of the
territory Ukraine holds in the oblast
and to make matters worse for Putin
those reports came amidst others
claiming that Ukraine had killed
1,950 Russian soldiers and destroyed
over 100 armored vehicles in a single
day across the entire 800m Front Line
the new voice of Ukraine says that
Russia has resorted to flattening their
own troops and killing their own
citizens by a Sally carpet bombing the
areas in K that Ukraine holds Russia has
shelled the territory 11,500
78 times the media Outlet claims in
addition to dropping
3,243 guided aerial bombs and 356
unguided missiles onto KK that's where
Ukraine's attack's weapons come into
play again Russia can blanket KK with
bombs from fortifications it's built
outside the new front line Ukraine
created when it invaded KK previously
there was little Ukraine could do about
this Beyond holding its ground against
the constant bombing but with permission
to use attacks inside Russia comes the
ability to Target the airfields and
launching locations Russia has used to
attack KK so intently with some of those
locations destroyed the Ukrainian troops
on the ground can focus on defending
themselves against the 50,000 strong
counter offensive significantly raising
their chances of holding KK for the long
run and it's not just bases near K that
Ukraine can attack it has so many more
potential targets to strike with attacks
that would relieve pressure across the
entire front line in the wake of Biden's
approval the KE post noted that having
access to attacks could allow Ukraine to
strike over 245 military objects these
objects include 15 air bases with some
of the most prominent being in the
Brians KK lepet rostov and kuga regions
it's a massive upgrade on the Rockets
Ukraine previously launched from their
High Mars which could only travel 50 Mi
and hit 20 of the 245 plus potential
targets attacks can reach and Ukraine
has already proven it can hit Brians
with its November 19th Strike Back to
the airfields they matter because
they're what Russia uses to launch its
terrifying Glide bombs predominantly
made using Russia's Soviet era Fab 1500
bombs which weigh about 1.65 tons Glide
bombs are made using a special upgrade
kit that costs as little as $20,000 that
kit essentially equips Russia's old
bombs with wings allowing its aircraft
to launch them from behind the front
lines so they can glide to Targets in
Ukraine Russia has buffeted Ukraine with
these bombs March 2024 alone saw Russia
send around 3,000 Glide bombs Ukraine's
way and many more thousands have hit
Ukraine since as for why they're so
dangerous you only need to compare a
Glide bombb to a standard artill shell a
Russian 152 mm shell contains around 14
lb of explosive the country's 1.65 ton
Glide bomb packs an enormous 440 lbs of
explosive into their massive shells
giving each bomb over 31 times the
destructive power of an artillery shell
the one downside to Glide bombs from the
Russian perspective is that they need to
be launched from the air a plane has to
take off hit a suitable altitude and
position itself appropriately before
launch for that Russia needs airfields
from which these planes can take off
which brings us right back to the 15
airfields Ukraine can now Target with
its attacks taking just one of those
airfields out drastically reduces
Russia's ability to safely launch Glide
bombs from behind the front lines taking
out several would massively relieve the
intense pressure Russia has placed on
Ukraine in its push to take donet again
we'll see a similar result to what the
attacks would achieve in K less fire
from above allowing Ukrainian ground
troops to counter Russia's offensive
Maneuvers on the ground beyond the
airfields you also have to consider what
other Russian assets fall within the 245
plus objects the key post identifies for
instance many of those assets are likely
storage units Russia uses to keep its
troops supplied on the front lines in
Ukraine taking these storage facilities
out would mean Russia is less able to
equip its troops on the ground attack
them strikes may also allow Ukraine to
destroy Russian tanks and artillery
units before they're deployed to the
front again relieving pressure on its
soldiers in donet so the attacks isn't
just a Glide Bomb Destroyer it's a
missile that allows Ukraine to disrupt
Russian supply lines that it couldn't
previously reach Timothy Ash who's a
chatter house associate fellow says as
much when he tells Al jazer Ukraine
needs to be able to hit Russian Supply
chains which it's moved back Beyond
current Ukrainian Missile Range that's
another good point the Ukraine Wars
front lines now extend so deep into the
dbass region that Ukraine's short-range
High Mars Rockets aren't even able to
hit Russian positions inside its own
territory the 50-m range doesn't allow
it with ATT attacks Ukraine can start by
taking out Russia's logistical assets
near the outskirts of its own country
before moving on to tackle the many
Russian objects the KE post mentions Ash
goes on to point out that Simply Having
the ability to use attacks on Russian
territory gives Ukraine something very
important leverage that's what Ukraine
wanted to create when it invaded KK and
it gets even more now it's able to use
attacks as Ash points out Biden may have
made his decision intending to deliver
more leverage to zinski in future
negotiations with Putin once the
capability is been given it's harder to
take away he notes Putin will want to
negotiate limits on Ukraine's military
capabilities if Selinsky and Putin ever
do find themselves at the negotiating
table perhaps Ukraine's president can
use his attacks to force Putin into
reducing his use of Glide bombs or
pulling back from various regions in
donet there in May lie the main reason
behind Biden granting approval to use
attack him so late into his presidency
Ash says it looks like Russia will
escalate over the next couple of months
before the Trump presidency and likely
negotiations it's already doing
precisely that if his actions in curs or
anything to go by introducing soldiers
from another country in his special
military operation is an escalation
beyond anything we've seen Putin do
since February 2022 so Ukraine needs to
be able to hit longer range to Dent
Russia's offensive capabilities Ash
concludes notably Trump has already
called on Russia not to escalate the
conflict any further Putin ignored those
calls but that's unlikely to dissuade
Trump from pushing for peace when he
takes office in January 2025 Ukraine May
welcome any negotiations Trump can
mediate but it'll want to enter those
negotiations from a position of power
which means using attacks not just as
leverage but as a tool to weaken Russia
in the two months before Trump takes
office speaking of escalation that's
precisely what occurred in the wake of
reports of Biden's decision before
Ukraine's November 19 attack Russia
marked the 1,000th day of the war by
changing up its nuclear Doctrine now it
says that any attack conducted by a
non-nuclear state such as Ukraine if
backed by a nuclear power such as the US
will constitute a joint attack on Russia
and with that change Putin has opened
the door for Russia to use nukes in
response to Ukraine's attack's usage
will he go that far only time will tell
as for zinski Biden's policy ival is
massive news for his country's Brave
military it also takes him one step
closer to enacting the victory plan he
presented to the us back in October if
nothing else Biden's move takes Ukraine
one step closer to resolving things with
Russia be that on the battlefield or
diplomatically the latter seems to be
zelinsky's preferred option as he awaits
Donald Trump's arrival in office the
Hindu reported on an interview he gave
to Ukrainian radio just days before
Biden's policy reversal for our part we
must do everything we can to ensure that
this war ends next year zinsky said we
have to end it by diplomatic means aams
trained on key Russian locations may
give Ukraine The Leverage it needs to do
just that but as Ukraine's November 19th
strike demonstrates zalinski is far from
shy about using his missiles to hit
Russia where it hurts right now so what
do you think about Biden's decision to
allow Ukraine to use the attacks on
Russian targets will it allow Ukraine to
negotiate a better deal for itself when
Donald Trump becomes president and enact
his peace plan or will Putin escalate
from here making the US regret it
decision in the process share your
thoughts in the comments section and
thank you for watching the video